to leave[3]. After his release, he went to a party in his loft with Julia Wicker and their friends, where he tried to explain the complexities of sleight-of-hand magic and talked about the Danish version of the Fillory and Further series. Later, Julia found Quentin in his room, reading The World in the Walls instead of partying with everyone else. He told Julia that he planned to sell his books and leave Fillory behind, which Julia agreed was right. Attending Brakebills Rocky Recruitment Quentin and Julia talk to "Eliza". The next day, when Quentin and Julia arrived for an interview for Yale, the two discovered the body of their interviewer and called the police. After the paramedics arrived to take the body, one of the EMTs, Eliza, handed Quentin a package, which he took before leaving with Julia. As Quentin walked Julia to her interview, he opened the package and found that it contained a manuscript of the seemingly lost additional book in his childhood-favorite series, Fillory and Further. Seeing the excitement Quentin still had for the series, Julia insisted he give up the childhood fantasy of Fillory as she had. Quentin stated that she never hated the series until she began dating James. After the two parted ways, Quentin began to read the manuscript. A gust of wind blew one of the pages away, causing him to chase after it. The page brought him to an abandoned lot, where he discovered a hidden portal that brought him to Brakebills University, where Eliot Waugh was waiting for him. Attending Brakebills He passed an Entrance Exam, a collection of ingenious mathematical and otherwise mind-bending problems, then discovered his magical prowess when he manipulated a set of cards with his mind. He is later admitted to matriculate there along with the other studying magicians, remains at the school for a short time before the school year starts, spending his days with Eliot and Margo, the former of whom he met when he first arrived on campus. Early in his time at Brakebills, Quentin sees Jane Chatwin in his dreams. Visits from her act as a catalyst to draw Quentin closer to his allies, especially Alice Quinn. After having nodded off while studying, Quentin wakes up from a dream of Jane with a symbol branded into his palm that he had seen Alice studying previously. It turns out the symbol is part of her research into contacting her mysteriously deceased brother, Charlie Quinn. Upon beginning the spell to summon Charlie's spirit, the symbol disappears. A voice in Penny's head instructs him to help, leading him and Kady to assist in the spell, which at first appears to not have worked. Their assumption that the spell did not work is proven wrong, however, when The Beast enters Brakebills in the middle of class, killing Van der Weghe and maiming Dean Fogg. The Beast directly addresses Quentin by name and moves to kill him, but Quentin unpauses time by using an enchanted pocket watch that Dean Fogg offers him, and the rest of his classmates fight back against the Beast. Personality "My friend Julia said that I couldn't run away hard enough. She's right. I run, and I find secret doors - whether I'm alone or in a group, it doesn't matter. Like I'm here. I'm in this amazing place. I have literal magic in my life, and I'm still running. I'm still this person that I fucking hate." ―Quentin Coldwater[src] Intelligent, driven, and melancholic. Quentin is an introverted person but fiercely driven to grasp the power that’s been handed to him. He’s always suspected there was something different about him, and now he has the chance to prove it. But his low self-esteem and depression sometimes hold him back. Quentin is a friendly but shy and awkward individual; he is happy to talk but often stumbles on his own words in a conversation. He has been a fan of the Fillory and Further series since his childhood and yearns to fill his life with the same adventures found in the books. Quentin, before discovering Brakebills, was suffering from isolation anxiety, stating that the feeling of not belonging anywhere was overwhelming and that he was "the most useless person to ever live". As pointed out by Dean Fogg, however, he was never truly depressed. In reality, Quentin was lonely, and angry at the world, but this soon faded as he adjusted to his new life. As he began his college career at Brakebills, he quickly made friends with Eliot Waugh, whom he met before his Exam, and Margo Hanson, upperclassmen and Physical Kids who held most of the authority in their Discipline House, the Cottage, after the mysterious disappearance of most of the Third-year class. A neophyte to being a Magician, Quentin initially had very little understanding and control of his magical abilities. As such, he was easily impressed, along with the rest of his classmates, by the advanced capabilities of Alice Quinn, whom he came to admire and respect. He worried about his time at Brakebills, his fear of flunking out pushing him to ask if Alice would mentor him due to her comprehension. After the attack by The Beast, Quentin grew increasingly paranoid, as he and Alice, along with Penny and Kady, two other students in their year, performed the ritual that allowed it to get through Brakebills' wards. His paranoia drove him to steal an Emerson's Alloy Repellant from Penny, in fear of having his knowledge of magic removed and being forced to return to the mundane world he escaped from. Upon his revelation that Fillory, the setting of the Fillory and Further series, was real, Quentin fantasized about traveling there to live out his childhood fantasy. After arriving, Quentin expresses a desire to be Fillory's hero and savior but decides that Alice, a much more capable magician than him, should be that hero. Magic and Abilities Magic Quentin creating a miniature vortex. Wellspring-Enhanced Magician: Quentin was considered to be a very