him to utilize the concept of magic and apply it in the physical world. He was slated to go to Princeton before his discovery of Brakebills, and was able to beat the Madness Maker, a rogue trickster magician who went insane, at his own game,[4] a testament to his intellect. After his instruction with Mischa Mayakovsky, his intelligence allowed him to perform the meta-mathematics involved in spellcasting to allow him to innately know the Circumstances surrounding his castings[5], as well as construct magical formulas and equations for spellcraft. Quentin's understanding of magical theory allowed him to create the ritual used to bring back Alice from her state as a Niffin[6], a feat no other Magician in history could accomplish. Multilingualism: Coldwater spoke his native English, and was fluent in Old High German, Arabic, Greek, Romanian, Latin, Russian, Slavic. He also could read Hieratic script. Equipment Playing Cards: To be added Magic Pocket Watch: Coldwater used a magical pocket watch to undo The Beast's paralysis spell during the Attack on Brakebills University. Teukolsky's Locator Spell: Coldwater used this spell to help Alice Quinn locate the spirit of her brother, Charlie. Niffin Box: Coldwater used an enchanted box to seal away Charlie Quinn after he became a Niffin. Voodoo Doll: Coldwater attempted to lift the curse placed on Penny by the Virgo Blade by burning a voodoo doll in his place. Magical Buttons: Quentin and his friends obtained the magical button after searching the home of Christopher Plover, which enabled the magicians to travel to The Neitherlands. Truth Serum: Coldwater used truth serum on Dean Fogg to get answers about Eliza and Fillory, learning that Eliza was truly Jane Chatwin and Julia Wicker was meant to be at Brakebills. Time Bridge: Coldwater and Julia Wicker used a time bridge to travel back to 1942 in England to travel to Fillory. Crossbow: Coldwater attempted to use this to kill Margo Hanson after the two were cursed by Martin Chatwin, but was disarmed by Penny. Facilities Brakebills University for Magical Pedagogy: To be added Physical Kids' Cottage: To be added Midtown Mental Health Clinic: To be added Ellsworth Downs Hospital: To be added Brakebills South: To be added Castle Whitespire: To be added Secrets Taken to the Grave: To be added Relationships Family Paternal Grandfather † Ted Coldwater † - Father Quentin Coldwater's Mother Arielle † - Wife Ted Coldwater-Waugh - Son Allies Brakebills University for Magical Pedagogy Henry Fogg - Dean Pearl Sunderland - Professor Eleanor Lipson - Professor Surendra - Former Classmate Gretchen Alsop - Classmate Faye - Classmate Todd - Classmate Penny Adiyodi † - Former Rival, Friend, and Spiritual Guide Physical Kids - Welters Team Eliot Waugh - Love Interest and Former King Margo Hanson - Friend, Welters Captain, One-Night Stand and Former King Alice Quinn - Ex-Girlfriend Kady Orloff-Diaz - Friend and Former Classmate Julia Wicker - Best Friend and Former Enthraller Poppy Kline - Former Love Interest Josh Hoberman - Friend and Savior James - Former Friend Jane Chatwin † - Benefactor High Council - Former Advisors Tick Pickwick Heloise Abigail Rafe Gillen Plaxco Emily Greenstreet - Former Colleague, slept together Free Trader Beowulf Richard Corrigan † Menolly † Silver † Hudson River Dragon - Situational Ally Eugene FuzzBeat Harriet Schiff Victoria Gradley Enemies The Beast † - Former Idol and Attempted Killer Ellsworth Downs Hospital - Former Prison Jennifer London (illusion) Faye (illusion) Mike McCormick † - Attempted Killer Order of the Library of the Neitherlands Everett Rowe † - Victim Gavin Winterbottom Irene McAllistair Nameless Behind the Scenes Cameron Hilts was a stunt double for Jason Ralph in the role of Quentin Coldwater. Appearances Expand Appearances of Quentin Coldwater References ↑ The Magicians: 1.09: The Writing Room ↑ Quentin Coldwater on BrakebillsU ↑ The Magicians: 1.01: Unauthorized Magic ↑ The Magicians: 1.04: The World in the Walls ↑ The Magicians: 1.07: The Mayakovsky Circumstance ↑ The Magicians: 2.12: Ramifications The Magicians Wiki has a collection of images and media related to Quentin Coldwater. Categories Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Comments Start a conversation Sign in to share your thoughts and get the conversation going. SIGN IN Don't have account? Register now Where to Watch This info contains affiliate links. If you purchase through these links, Fandom may earn a commission at no extra cost to you. The Magicians (2016) High school senior Quentin Coldwater (Jason Ralph) secretly loves the fantasy novels about the adventures of five children in a magical land called Fillory. He soon is accepted into an exclusive, secret magicians university called Brakebills in upstate New York and discovers Fillory is a real place in this adaptation of Lev Grossman's trilogy of books. SEE MORE Amazon Video Buy/Rent from $113.15 Watch Now Fandango At Home Buy/Rent from $114.95 Watch Now Apple TV Buy/Rent from $121.95 Watch Now SEE MORE EXPLORE PROPERTIES Fandom Muthead Fanatical FOLLOW US OVERVIEW What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Do Not Sell My Personal Information COMMUNITY Community Central Support Help ADVERTISE Media Kit Contact FANDOM APPS Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. The Magicians Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. VIEW MOBILE SITE