SIGN IN REGISTER Menu Explore SKIP TO CONTENT The Magicians Wiki 1,492 PAGES EXPLORE UNIVERSE BOOK SERIES TV SERIES COMMUNITY in: Citations needed, Articles under construction, Humans, and 10 more Quentin Coldwater SIGN IN TO EDIT This article is currently under construction. The information contained within should not be considered fully accurate and/or complete. For other uses, see Quentin Coldwater (disambiguation) Identity Legal Name Quentin Coldwater Alias(es) Q Nothing-mancer Squat-mancer High-Strung Super Nerd Curly Q The Volunteer Tomato Hobbit-loving Freak Fanboy The Simpleton Toto The Fool King Quentin Floppy-Haired, Limp-Dick Dork Quincy Shoddy Little Magician Sad Little Nerd King Harry Potter A Brother of the Heart with the Floppy Hair (with Eliot Waugh) Brian Sad Little Man We Are Calling Brian Brian-Not-Brian Squirrelly Little Human The Floppy Haired One Status Deceased Biographical Information Age 27 Birth July 20, 1992[citation needed] Biological Distinctions Species Human Gender Male Education and Occupational Education Brakebills University for Magical Pedagogy (formerly) Columbia University (formerly; Magna Cum Laude) Discipline Repair of Small Objects Profession(s) Accountant (formerly) Affiliation(s) Brakebills University Plaxco (formerly) Appearances First Appearance Unauthorized Magic Last Appearance No Better to Be Safe Than Sorry Actor/Actress Portrayed By Jason Ralph Tim Carlson (as Brian) Luca Padovan (12 years old) Quentin Coldwater, B.A., is a New York Magician who attended Brakebills University. Quentin has always been on the outside looking in. He's awkward, unsure, overthinks everything, He's the sort of guy always pining from afar (especially for his childhood best friend, Julia). It's no wonder the world of magic—especially in his favorite book series, Fillory and Further—has been such an escape. But, as Quentin discovers upon entering Brakebills University, magic is more than the card tricks he's learned over the years. It's very real, and he can wield it, with some serious practice and focus. Seemingly for the first time in Quentin's life, the future doesn't look so bleak. After suffering from the loss of Alice during their confrontation with The Beast, Quentin begins on a quest that even the most powerful of magicians believe to be impossible: restoring his lost love back to life. Throughout his journey, he finds himself making deals with dragons, confronting gods, robbing banks, and saving an entire kingdom from impending doom. However, as all things magic come with a price, Quentin and his friends' actions leave them scrambling to save magic itself, or face the possibility of returning to the bleak life he'd escaped once already. Contents 1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Meeting Julia Wicker 1.1.2 Mental Illness 1.2 Attending Brakebills 1.2.1 Rocky Recruitment 1.3 Attending Brakebills 2 Personality 3 Magic and Abilities 3.1 Magic 3.2 Abilities 4 Equipment 5 Facilities 6 Relationships 6.1 Family 6.2 Allies 6.3 Enemies 7 Behind the Scenes 8 Appearances 9 References History Early Life Meeting Julia Wicker "You used to like Fillory. You got me into it, Julia! I learned magic tricks just to keep up with you. It was our thing." "Yeah, it was our thing, and it was fun, silly, nerdy bullshit, and it got us through high school." ―Quentin Coldwater to Julia Wicker[src] Quentin Coldwater was born in 1992 to his mother and Ted Coldwater in Montclair, New Jersey. At a young age, he met Julia Wicker who introduced him to the Fillory and Further series and started his love for magic. Coldwater learned sleight-of-hand magic and card tricks to match Wicker's interest, and at the age of 10 the two made a map of Fillory on the underside of a table, promising to explore the world together like Jane and Martin Chatwin.[1] Mental Illness Quentin at the Midtown Mental Health Clinic. "On admitting, you reported you couldn't concentrate, eat, get out of bed. You said the feeling of not belonging anywhere was overwhelming. And now, you feel better?" "I mean, I get it." "Get?" "You're a kid, and your whole life's ahead of you, and you have all these notions about what life is and what it could be. But eventually, you have to let all that go. That's what I'm – that's what I'm doing." ―Jennifer London and Quentin Coldwater[src] Coldwater suffered from depression and was first hospitalized at 16 until his dad brought him a copy of The World in the Walls to read until he felt better. After high school, Coldwater attended Columbia University, graduating magna cum laude with a Bachelor's in Literature.[2] In October 2015, Coldwater checked himself into the Midtown Mental Health Clinic for a weekend due to his worsening depression and was called into Doctor Jennifer London's office after he requested his release days later, explaining that he realized he needed to grow past his love for Fillory and take his future seriously. When Doctor London suggested he stay longer, Coldwater stated that he wasn't a threat to himself or others and was allowed to leave[3]. After his release, he went to a party in his loft with Julia Wicker and their friends, where he tried to explain the complexities of sleight-of-hand magic and talked about the Danish version of the Fillory and Further series. Later, Julia found Quentin in his room, reading The World in the Walls instead of partying with everyone else. He told Julia that he planned to sell his books and leave Fillory behind, which Julia agreed was right. Attending Brakebills Rocky Recruitment Quentin and Julia talk to "Eliza". The next day, when Quentin and Julia arrived for an interview for Yale, the two discovered the body of their interviewer and called the police. After the paramedics arrived to take the body, one of the EMTs, Eliza, handed Quentin a package, which he took before leaving with Julia. As Quentin walked Julia to her interview, he opened the package and found that it contained a manuscript of the seemingly lost additional book in his childhood-favorite series, Fillory and Further. Seeing the excitement Quentin still had for the series, Julia insisted he give up the childhood fantasy of Fillory as she had. Quentin stated that she never hated the series until