to leave[3]. After his release, he went to a party in his loft with Julia Wicker and their friends, where he tried to explain the complexities of sleight-of-hand magic and talked about the Danish version of the Fillory and Further series. Later, Julia found Quentin in his room, reading The World in the Walls instead of partying with everyone else. He told Julia that he planned to sell his books and leave Fillory behind, which Julia agreed was right. Attending Brakebills Rocky Recruitment Quentin and Julia talk to "Eliza". The next day, when Quentin and Julia arrived for an interview for Yale, the two discovered the body of their interviewer and called the police. After the paramedics arrived to take the body, one of the EMTs, Eliza, handed Quentin a package, which he took before leaving with Julia. As Quentin walked Julia to her interview, he opened the package and found that it contained a manuscript of the seemingly lost additional book in his childhood-favorite series, Fillory and Further. Seeing the excitement Quentin still had for the series, Julia insisted he give up the childhood fantasy of Fillory as she had. Quentin stated that she never hated the series until she began dating James. After the two parted ways, Quentin began to read the manuscript. A gust of wind blew one of the pages away, causing him to chase after it. The page brought him to an abandoned lot, where he discovered a hidden portal that brought him to Brakebills University, where Eliot Waugh was waiting for him. Attending Brakebills He passed an Entrance Exam, a collection of ingenious mathematical and otherwise mind-bending problems, then discovered his magical prowess when he manipulated a set of cards with his mind. He is later admitted to matriculate there along with the other studying magicians, remains at the school for a short time before the school year starts, spending his days with Eliot and Margo, the former of whom he met when he first arrived on campus. Early in his time at Brakebills, Quentin sees Jane Chatwin in his dreams. Visits from her act as a catalyst to draw Quentin closer to his allies, especially Alice Quinn. After having nodded off while studying, Quentin wakes up from a dream of Jane with a symbol branded into his palm that he had seen Alice studying previously. It turns out the symbol is part of her research into contacting her mysteriously deceased brother, Charlie Quinn. Upon beginning the spell to summon Charlie's spirit, the symbol disappears. A voice in Penny's head instructs him to help, leading him and Kady to assist in the spell, which at first appears to not have worked. Their assumption that the spell did not work is proven wrong, however, when The Beast enters Brakebills in the middle of class, killing Van der Weghe and maiming Dean Fogg. The Beast directly addresses Quentin by name and moves to kill him, but Quentin unpauses time by using an enchanted pocket watch that