her research into contacting her mysteriously deceased brother, Charlie Quinn. Upon beginning the spell to summon Charlie's spirit, the symbol disappears. A voice in Penny's head instructs him to help, leading him and Kady to assist in the spell, which at first appears to not have worked. Their assumption that the spell did not work is proven wrong, however, when The Beast enters Brakebills in the middle of class, killing Van der Weghe and maiming Dean Fogg. The Beast directly addresses Quentin by name and moves to kill him, but Quentin unpauses time by using an enchanted pocket watch that Dean Fogg offers him, and the rest of his classmates fight back against the Beast. Personality "My friend Julia said that I couldn't run away hard enough. She's right. I run, and I find secret doors - whether I'm alone or in a group, it doesn't matter. Like I'm here. I'm in this amazing place. I have literal magic in my life, and I'm still running. I'm still this person that I fucking hate." ―Quentin Coldwater[src] Intelligent, driven, and melancholic. Quentin is an introverted person but fiercely driven to grasp the power that’s been handed to him. He’s always suspected there was something different about him, and now he has the chance to prove it. But his low self-esteem and depression sometimes hold him back. Quentin is a friendly but shy and awkward individual; he is happy to talk but often stumbles on his own words in a conversation. He has been a fan of the Fillory and Further series since his childhood and yearns to fill his life with the same adventures found in the books. Quentin, before discovering Brakebills, was suffering from isolation anxiety, stating that the feeling of not belonging anywhere was overwhelming and that he was "the most useless person to ever live". As pointed out by Dean Fogg, however, he was never truly depressed. In reality, Quentin was lonely, and angry at the world, but this soon faded as he adjusted to his new life. As he began his college career at Brakebills, he quickly made friends with Eliot Waugh, whom he met before his Exam, and Margo Hanson, upperclassmen and Physical Kids who held most of the authority in their Discipline House, the Cottage, after the mysterious disappearance of most of the Third-year class. A neophyte to being a Magician, Quentin initially had very little understanding and control of his magical abilities. As such, he was easily impressed, along with the rest of his classmates, by the advanced capabilities of Alice Quinn, whom he came to admire and respect. He worried about his time at Brakebills, his fear of flunking out pushing him to ask if Alice would mentor him due to her comprehension. After the attack by The Beast, Quentin grew increasingly paranoid, as he and Alice, along with Penny and Kady, two other students in their year, performed the ritual that allowed it to get through Brakebills' wards. His paranoia drove him