little understanding and control of his magical abilities. As such, he was easily impressed, along with the rest of his classmates, by the advanced capabilities of Alice Quinn, whom he came to admire and respect. He worried about his time at Brakebills, his fear of flunking out pushing him to ask if Alice would mentor him due to her comprehension. After the attack by The Beast, Quentin grew increasingly paranoid, as he and Alice, along with Penny and Kady, two other students in their year, performed the ritual that allowed it to get through Brakebills' wards. His paranoia drove him to steal an Emerson's Alloy Repellant from Penny, in fear of having his knowledge of magic removed and being forced to return to the mundane world he escaped from. Upon his revelation that Fillory, the setting of the Fillory and Further series, was real, Quentin fantasized about traveling there to live out his childhood fantasy. After arriving, Quentin expresses a desire to be Fillory's hero and savior but decides that Alice, a much more capable magician than him, should be that hero. Magic and Abilities Magic Quentin creating a miniature vortex. Wellspring-Enhanced Magician: Quentin was considered to be a very gifted magician with great potential. Even without the knowledge of magic's existence, Quentin was an adept practitioner of street magic, excelling in both sleight-of-hand and card tricks, as displayed in Jennifer London's office and during his Entrance Exam, respectively. Quentin was able to perform different kinds of magic and spells to varying degrees of success, though he had been grouped with the Physical Kids for the time being. When The Beast first attacked, Quentin summoned a pocket watch from Dean Fogg's hand into his own, and in Fillory, he materialized a god-slaying sword into his hands to face Ember, whereas the sword was previously across the room. During the Welters competition, Quentin created a miniature vortex that won the game for the team, but he had little control over it and struggled to shut it down. While under the effects of the Scarlatti's Web hex, where he was trapped in a dream world that had no magic, Quentin bypassed the power of the hex, which was performed by two powerful hedge witches, and cast a spell despite his previous attempts failing. Wellspring Magic Manipulation: Coldwater was able to shape and manipulate the energy of the Wellspring to cast spells by speaking various incantations and writing specific formations with his hands, creating phosphorescent constructs of energy. Telekinesis: As one of the Physical Kids, Quentin was naturally adept at using telekinesis. During his Entrance Exam, he was able to perform a Minor Incantation by manipulating a deck of cards into a replica of Castle Whitespire, complete with its rotating towers, before fainting. Apportation: Before Quentin was even aware of his magic, he was capable of using translocational magic to teleport objects. When Dean Fogg was paralyzed on the floor after the The Beast attacked, Quentin was able to apport the Magic Pocket Watch to end the paralysis spell he was under. While magic was gone, Quentin was also able to apport an olive from his hand into martini glass. Mind Control: Coldwater first learned about mind control at Brakebills' the main campus in New York, where they are taught not to use this class of magic on living creatures. However, during their time at Brakebills South, Quentin and his classmates were extensively instructed on mind control by Professor Mayakovsky. At first, Quentin struggled with asserting his will on smaller insects, prompting Mayakovsky to get inventive with his direction. After being attached to a crude disciplinary device that would shock them if they made a mistake, Quentin and Alice, fortunately, navigated a bushel of fireflies through a chain of rings. Later, he's seen single-handedly guiding a mass of bees during a bank heist, having successfully sharpened his mental discipline enough to sufficiently control them to a high degree. Illusion Casting: During a bank heist, Coldwater was able to to scrub his image from the footage. Mending: Coldwater's discipline was Repair of Small Objects, granting him a natural aptitude towards repairing smaller, handheld objects. According to Alice Quinn, Coldwater excelled at minor mendings. He was able to repair one of his father's broken model planes, and later healed a broken coffee mug at Brakebills South while demonstrating his discipline for Quinn. During the final confrontation against Everett Rowe in the Mirror Realm, Coldwater repaired the mirror bridge Rowe cracked, restoring the portal to the Seam in order to banish Nameless and his sister to the Antiverse. Abilities Gifted Intellect: Quentin was able to grasp the full comprehension of magical theory as taught at Brakebills University. As is the standard for all Magicians, Quentin possessed at least an Above Average level of intelligence that enables him to utilize the concept of magic and apply it in the physical world. He was slated to go to Princeton before his discovery of Brakebills, and was able to beat the Madness Maker, a rogue trickster magician who went insane, at his own game,[4] a testament to his intellect. After his instruction with Mischa Mayakovsky, his intelligence allowed him to perform the meta-mathematics involved in spellcasting to allow him to innately know the Circumstances surrounding his castings[5], as well as construct magical formulas and equations for spellcraft. Quentin's understanding of magical theory allowed him to create the ritual used to bring back Alice from her state as a Niffin[6], a feat no other Magician in history could accomplish. Multilingualism: Coldwater spoke his native English, and was fluent in Old High German, Arabic, Greek, Romanian, Latin, Russian, Slavic. He also could read Hieratic script. Equipment Playing Cards: To be added Magic Pocket Watch: Coldwater used a magical pocket watch to undo The Beast's paralysis spell during the Attack on Brakebills University. Teukolsky's Locator Spell: Coldwater used this spell to help Alice Quinn locate the spirit of her brother, Charlie. Niffin Box: Coldwater used an enchanted box to seal away Charlie