life he'd escaped once already. Contents 1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Meeting Julia Wicker 1.1.2 Mental Illness 1.2 Attending Brakebills 1.2.1 Rocky Recruitment 1.3 Attending Brakebills 2 Personality 3 Magic and Abilities 3.1 Magic 3.2 Abilities 4 Equipment 5 Facilities 6 Relationships 6.1 Family 6.2 Allies 6.3 Enemies 7 Behind the Scenes 8 Appearances 9 References History Early Life Meeting Julia Wicker "You used to like Fillory. You got me into it, Julia! I learned magic tricks just to keep up with you. It was our thing." "Yeah, it was our thing, and it was fun, silly, nerdy bullshit, and it got us through high school." ―Quentin Coldwater to Julia Wicker[src] Quentin Coldwater was born in 1992 to his mother and Ted Coldwater in Montclair, New Jersey. At a young age, he met Julia Wicker who introduced him to the Fillory and Further series and started his love for magic. Coldwater learned sleight-of-hand magic and card tricks to match Wicker's interest, and at the age of 10 the two made a map of Fillory on the underside of a table, promising to explore the world together like Jane and Martin Chatwin.[1] Mental Illness Quentin at the Midtown Mental Health Clinic. "On admitting, you reported you couldn't concentrate, eat, get out of bed. You said the feeling of not belonging anywhere was overwhelming. And now, you feel better?" "I mean, I get it." "Get?" "You're a kid, and your whole life's ahead of you, and you have all these notions about what life is and what it could be. But eventually, you have to let all that go. That's what I'm – that's what I'm doing." ―Jennifer London and Quentin Coldwater[src] Coldwater suffered from depression and was first hospitalized at 16 until his dad brought him a copy of The World in the Walls to read until he felt better. After high school, Coldwater attended Columbia University, graduating magna cum laude with a Bachelor's in Literature.[2] In October 2015, Coldwater checked himself into the Midtown Mental Health Clinic for a weekend due to his worsening depression and was called into Doctor Jennifer London's office after he requested his release days later, explaining that he realized he needed to grow past his love for Fillory and take his future seriously. When Doctor London suggested he stay longer, Coldwater stated that he wasn't a threat to himself or others and was allowed to leave[3]. After his release, he went to a party in his loft with Julia Wicker and their friends, where he tried to explain the complexities of sleight-of-hand magic and talked about the Danish version of the Fillory and Further series. Later, Julia found Quentin in his room, reading The World in the Walls instead of partying with everyone else. He told Julia that he planned to sell his books and leave Fillory behind, which Julia agreed was right. Attending Brakebills Rocky Recruitment Quentin and Julia talk to "Eliza". The next day, when Quentin and Julia arrived for an interview