little understanding and control of his magical abilities. As such, he was easily impressed, along with the rest of his classmates, by the advanced capabilities of Alice Quinn, whom he came to admire and respect. He worried about his time at Brakebills, his fear of flunking out pushing him to ask if Alice would mentor him due to her comprehension. After the attack by The Beast, Quentin grew increasingly paranoid, as he and Alice, along with Penny and Kady, two other students in their year, performed the ritual that allowed it to get through Brakebills' wards. His paranoia drove him to steal an Emerson's Alloy Repellant from Penny, in fear of having his knowledge of magic removed and being forced to return to the mundane world he escaped from. Upon his revelation that Fillory, the setting of the Fillory and Further series, was real, Quentin fantasized about traveling there to live out his childhood fantasy. After arriving, Quentin expresses a desire to be Fillory's hero and savior but decides that Alice, a much more capable magician than him, should be that hero. Magic and Abilities Magic Quentin creating a miniature vortex. Wellspring-Enhanced Magician: Quentin was considered to be a very gifted magician with great potential. Even without the knowledge of magic's existence, Quentin was an adept practitioner of street magic, excelling in both sleight-of-hand and card tricks, as displayed in Jennifer London's office and during his Entrance Exam, respectively. Quentin was able to perform different kinds of magic and spells to varying degrees of success, though he had been grouped with the Physical Kids for the time being. When The Beast first attacked, Quentin summoned a pocket watch from Dean Fogg's hand into his own, and in Fillory, he materialized a god-slaying sword into his hands to face Ember, whereas the sword was previously across the room. During the Welters competition, Quentin created a miniature vortex that won the game for the team, but he had little control over it and struggled to shut it down. While under the effects of the Scarlatti's Web hex, where he was trapped in a dream world that had no magic, Quentin bypassed the power of the hex, which was performed by two powerful hedge witches, and cast a spell despite his previous attempts failing. Wellspring Magic Manipulation: Coldwater was able to shape and manipulate the energy of the Wellspring to cast spells by speaking various incantations and writing specific formations with his hands, creating phosphorescent constructs of energy. Telekinesis: As one of the Physical Kids, Quentin was naturally adept at using telekinesis. During his Entrance Exam, he was able to perform a Minor Incantation by manipulating a deck of cards into a replica of Castle Whitespire, complete with its rotating towers, before fainting. Apportation: Before Quentin was even aware of his magic, he was capable of using translocational magic to teleport objects. When Dean Fogg was paralyzed on the floor after the The Beast attacked, Quentin was able to apport the Magic Pocket