SIGN IN REGISTER Menu Explore SKIP TO CONTENT The Magicians Wiki 1,492 PAGES EXPLORE UNIVERSE BOOK SERIES TV SERIES COMMUNITY in: Citations needed, Articles under construction, Humans, and 10 more Quentin Coldwater SIGN IN TO EDIT This article is currently under construction. The information contained within should not be considered fully accurate and/or complete. For other uses, see Quentin Coldwater (disambiguation) Identity Legal Name Quentin Coldwater Alias(es) Q Nothing-mancer Squat-mancer High-Strung Super Nerd Curly Q The Volunteer Tomato Hobbit-loving Freak Fanboy The Simpleton Toto The Fool King Quentin Floppy-Haired, Limp-Dick Dork Quincy Shoddy Little Magician Sad Little Nerd King Harry Potter A Brother of the Heart with the Floppy Hair (with Eliot Waugh) Brian Sad Little Man We Are Calling Brian Brian-Not-Brian Squirrelly Little Human The Floppy Haired One Status Deceased Biographical Information Age 27 Birth July 20, 1992[citation needed] Biological Distinctions Species Human Gender Male Education and Occupational Education Brakebills University for Magical Pedagogy (formerly) Columbia University (formerly; Magna Cum Laude) Discipline Repair of Small Objects Profession(s) Accountant (formerly) Affiliation(s) Brakebills University Plaxco (formerly) Appearances First Appearance Unauthorized Magic Last Appearance No Better to Be Safe Than Sorry Actor/Actress Portrayed By Jason Ralph Tim Carlson (as Brian) Luca Padovan (12 years old) Quentin Coldwater, B.A., is a New York Magician who attended Brakebills University. Quentin has always been on the outside looking in. He's awkward, unsure, overthinks everything, He's the sort of guy always pining from afar (especially for his childhood best friend, Julia). It's no wonder the world of magic—especially in his favorite book series, Fillory and Further—has been such an escape. But, as Quentin discovers upon entering Brakebills University, magic is more than the card tricks he's learned over the years. It's very real, and he can wield it, with some serious practice and focus. Seemingly for the first time in Quentin's life, the future doesn't look so bleak. After suffering from the loss of Alice during their confrontation with The Beast, Quentin begins on a quest that even the most powerful of magicians believe to be impossible: restoring his lost love back to life. Throughout his journey, he finds himself making deals with dragons, confronting gods, robbing banks, and saving an entire kingdom from impending doom. However, as all things magic come with a price, Quentin and his friends' actions leave them scrambling to save magic itself, or face the possibility of returning to the bleak life he'd escaped once already. Contents 1 History 1.1 Early Life 1.1.1 Meeting Julia Wicker 1.1.2 Mental Illness 1.2 Attending Brakebills 1.2.1 Rocky Recruitment 1.3 Attending Brakebills 2 Personality 3 Magic and Abilities 3.1 Magic 3.2 Abilities 4 Equipment 5 Facilities 6 Relationships 6.1 Family 6.2 Allies 6.3 Enemies 7 Behind the Scenes 8 Appearances 9 References History Early Life Meeting Julia Wicker "You used to like Fillory. You got me into it, Julia! I learned magic tricks just to keep up with you. It was our thing." "Yeah, it was our thing, and it was fun, silly, nerdy bullshit,