speaking various incantations and writing specific formations with his hands, creating phosphorescent constructs of energy. Telekinesis: As one of the Physical Kids, Quentin was naturally adept at using telekinesis. During his Entrance Exam, he was able to perform a Minor Incantation by manipulating a deck of cards into a replica of Castle Whitespire, complete with its rotating towers, before fainting. Apportation: Before Quentin was even aware of his magic, he was capable of using translocational magic to teleport objects. When Dean Fogg was paralyzed on the floor after the The Beast attacked, Quentin was able to apport the Magic Pocket Watch to end the paralysis spell he was under. While magic was gone, Quentin was also able to apport an olive from his hand into martini glass. Mind Control: Coldwater first learned about mind control at Brakebills' the main campus in New York, where they are taught not to use this class of magic on living creatures. However, during their time at Brakebills South, Quentin and his classmates were extensively instructed on mind control by Professor Mayakovsky. At first, Quentin struggled with asserting his will on smaller insects, prompting Mayakovsky to get inventive with his direction. After being attached to a crude disciplinary device that would shock them if they made a mistake, Quentin and Alice, fortunately, navigated a bushel of fireflies through a chain of rings. Later, he's seen single-handedly guiding a mass of bees during a bank heist, having successfully sharpened his mental discipline enough to sufficiently control them to a high degree. Illusion Casting: During a bank heist, Coldwater was able to to scrub his image from the footage. Mending: Coldwater's discipline was Repair of Small Objects, granting him a natural aptitude towards repairing smaller, handheld objects. According to Alice Quinn, Coldwater excelled at minor mendings. He was able to repair one of his father's broken model planes, and later healed a broken coffee mug at Brakebills South while demonstrating his discipline for Quinn. During the final confrontation against Everett Rowe in the Mirror Realm, Coldwater repaired the mirror bridge Rowe cracked, restoring the portal to the Seam in order to banish Nameless and his sister to the Antiverse. Abilities Gifted Intellect: Quentin was able to grasp the full comprehension of magical theory as taught at Brakebills University. As is the standard for all Magicians, Quentin possessed at least an Above Average level of intelligence that enables him to utilize the concept of magic and apply it in the physical world. He was slated to go to Princeton before his discovery of Brakebills, and was able to beat the Madness Maker, a rogue trickster magician who went insane, at his own game,[4] a testament to his intellect. After his instruction with Mischa Mayakovsky, his intelligence allowed him to perform the meta-mathematics involved in spellcasting to allow him to innately know the Circumstances surrounding his castings[5], as well as construct magical formulas and equations for spellcraft. Quentin's understanding of magical theory allowed him to create the ritual used